# Summary

A Cookiecutter template for NMDC python repositories using make as a project execution tool, tox as a linting and code quality tool, 
and poetry as a python virtual environment manager and packaging tool.

Creating a Python project using a Cookiecutter template helps ensure a consistent and standardized project structure, making it easier for team collaboration and onboarding.
It automates the creation of essential files and directories (like README, license, and test folders), ensuring best practices. 
Additionally, it saves time by reducing manual setup, allowing developers to focus on writing code rather than organizing project infrastructure.

More information about cookiecutters can be found here:
https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io


# Getting started
First, install the cruft package. Cruft enables keeping projects up-to-date with future updates made to this original template.

```
pip install cruft
```

### Next, create a project using the nmdc-project-template.

```
cruft create https://github.com/microbiodata/nmdc-project-template
```

### This kickstarts an interactive session where you declare the following:

- `project_name`: Name of the project. [defaults to: Project_X]
- `project_description`: Description of the project. [defaults to: This is the project description.].
- `file_name`: The name of the main Python file. [defaults to: main for main.py]
- `greeting_recipient`: This string will be displayed when the boilerplate code is invoked. [defaults to: World as in Hello, World!]
- `full_name`: Your name [defaults to: Author 1]
- `email`: your email [defaults to: author@org.org]
- `license: Choose one from [MIT, BSD-3, GNU GPL v3.0, Apache Software License 2.0] [defaults to: MIT]
- `github_token_variable_name_for_doc_deployment`: The GH token variable name for document deployment using Sphinx. [defaults to: GH_TOKEN]
- `github_token_variable_name_for_pypi_deployment`: The GH token variable name aligns with your autogenerated PyPI token for making releases. [defaults to: PYPI_TOKEN]
⚠️ ⚠️ ⚠️ Do NOT enter the token here; this is just the variable name that holds the token value in the project repository's secrets.⚠️ ⚠️ ⚠️ 


This will generate the project folder abiding by the template configuration specified by nmdc-project-template in the cookiecutter.json file.

### What does cruft do?

The following boilerplate code modules are autogenerated using cruft, which follows this cookiecutter template.  Cruft also creates its configuration and tracking files. It uses them to compare the current project setup with the base templating repository setup and help you pull in changes in the boilerplate code as needed. 

- GH actions workflows
- Method documentation and deployment using sphinx
- Test directory setup with pytest
- Poetry compatible pyproject.toml file containing minimal package requirements.
- tox.ini file containing configuration for:
- LICENSE file based on the choice made during setup.
- README.md file containing project_description value entered during setup.
- poetry-dynamic-versioning as a plugin
